docs/man.md, before:

# qpc-tools

## Name

qpc-tools - Configuration tools for the Quipucords server and command line interface client.


## Synopsis

`qpc-tools command subcommand [options]`

## Description

The `qpc-tools` package is used to configure the Quipucords server and command line interface (CLI) client.

# Usage

The following sections describe these commands, their subcommands, and their options in more detail. They also describe additional tasks that are not highlighted in the previous list of major workflow tasks.

## Server
This section describes various `qpc-tools` commands for installing and configuring the Quipucrods server.

### Server Install Command
The `qpc-tools server install` command with no options performs a basic installation with the preset defaults. However, it is recommended to run the `qpc-tools server install` command with options to change default username and passwords.

Note that in the log information for the `qpc-tools server install` command, references to `quipucords server` are relevant to the Quipucords server, and references to `QPC CLI` are relevant to the Quipucords command line interface client.

**qpc-tools server install** [**-h**]
                         [**--offline**]
                         [**--offline-files** *OFFLINE_FILES*]
                         [**--version** *SERVER_VERSION*]
                         [**--home-dir** *HOME_DIR*]
                         [**--port** *SERVER_PORT*]
                         [**--open-port** *OPEN_PORT*]
                         [**--dbms-user** *DBMS_USER*]
                         [**--dbms-password** *DBMS_PASSWORD*]
                         [**--username** *SERVER_USERNAME*]
                         [**--password** *SERVER_PASSWORD*]

`--offline`

  Controls whether the installation runs as an offline (disconnected) installation.

`--offline-files=OFFLINE_FILES`

  Sets the fully qualified path to the files needed to complete an offline installation. Required if `offline` specified.

`--version=VERSION`

  Enables the installation of a specific Quipucords server version. Contains the semantic versioning format (version.release.patch, such as 0.9.0) of the Quipucords server that you want to install. Required if `offline` is specified.

`--home-dir=HOME_DIR`

  Sets the fully qualified path to the installation directory for the Quipucords server. Defaults to `~/quipucords/`.

`--port=SERVER_PORT`

  Sets the port number for the Quipucords server. Defaults to `9443`.

`--open-port=OPEN_PORT`

  Determines whether to open the `port` in the firewall during the installation. This option enables communication between the Quipucords server and any remote clients over the port defined in `port`. Contains a true or false value. Defaults to `true`. Supply `false` to install without opening the server port in the firewall. The installation script must run with elevated privileges to open the server port.

`--dbms-user=DBMS_USER`

  Specifies the database user for PostgreSQL. Defaults to `postgres`.

`--dbms-password=DBMS_PASSWORD`

  Specifies the database password for PostgreSQL. Defaults to `password`.

`--username=SERVER_USERNAME`

  Sets the Quipucords server user name. Defaults to `admin`.

`--password=SERVER_PASSWORD`

  Sets the Quipucords server password. Defaults to `qpcpassw0rd`.


#### Installing the server offline

If you choose the offline option to run the install command, you must do the following steps.

1. Obtain the installation packages on a machine with internet connectivity.
    - [Download the following server image](https://github.com/quipucords/quipucords/releases/latest/download/quipucords_server_image.tar.gz)
    - Create the PostgreSQL image TAR file with Docker. Use the the following command, where the package name is ``postgres.9.6.10.tar``:

        ```
        docker pull postgres:9.6.10 && docker save -o postgres.9.6.10.tar postgres:9.6.10
        ```
1. Create a location for the packages on the machine where Quipucords will be installed and move the packages to that location.
1. Run qpc-tools with the required options to complete an offline installation.  For example:

    ```
    qpc-tools server install --offline --offline-files='/PATH' --version=0.9.1
    ```

#### Installing a specific version of the server

By default, the `qpc-tools server install` command installs the latest release unless an earlier version is specified in the command. For example, if the previous version of Quipucords that you want to install is 0.9.0, you would enter the following command:

```
qpc-tools server install --version=0.9.0
```

## Command Line Interface (CLI)
This section describes various `qpc-tools` commands for installing and configuring the Quipucrods CLI.

### CLI Install Command

The `qpc-tools cli install` command with no options performs a basic installation with the preset defaults.

Note that in the log information for the `qpc-tools cli install` command, references to `quipucords server` are relevant to the Quipucords server, and references to `QPC CLI` are relevant to the Quipucords command line interface client.

**qpc-tools cli install** [**-h**]
                         [**--offline**]
                         [**--offline-files** *OFFLINE_FILES*]
                         [**--version** *SERVER_VERSION*]
                         [**--home-dir** *HOME_DIR*]
                         [**--server-host** *SERVER_HOST*]
                         [**--server-port** *SERVER_PORT*]

`--offline`

  Controls whether the installation runs as an offline (disconnected) installation.

`--offline-files=OFFLINE_FILES`

  Sets the fully qualified path to the files needed to complete an offline installation. Required if `offline` specified.

`--version=VERSION`

  Enables the installation of a specific Quipucords CLI version. Contains the semantic versioning format (version.release.patch, such as 0.9.0) of the Quipucords CLI that you want to install.

`--home-dir=HOME_DIR`

  Sets the fully qualified path to the installation directory for the Quipucords CLI. Defaults to `~/quipucords/`.

`--server-host=SERVER_HOST`

  Sets the host for the Quipucords server. Defaults to `127.0.0.1`.

`--server-port=SERVER_PORT`

  Sets the port number for the Quipucords server. Defaults to `9443`.


#### Installing the CLI offline

If you choose the offline option to run the install command, you must do the following steps:

1. Obtain the installation packages on a machine with internet connectivity.  Select the appropriate RPM for your operating system.
    - [Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 and CentOS 6](https://github.com/quipucords/qpc/releases/latest/download/qpc.el6.noarch.rpm)
    - [Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 and CentOS 7](https://github.com/quipucords/qpc/releases/latest/download/qpc.el7.noarch.rpm)
    - [Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8](https://github.com/quipucords/qpc/releases/latest/download/qpc.el8.noarch.rpm)
1. Create a location for the packages on the machine where Quipucords will be installed and move the packages to that location.
1. Run qpc-tools with the required options to complete an offline installation.  For example:
    ```
    qpc-tools cli install --offline --offline-files='/PATH'
    ```

#### Installing a specific version of the CLI
By default, the `qpc-tools cli install` command installs the latest release unless an earlier version is specified in the command. For example, if the previous version of Quipucords that you want to install is 0.9.0., you would enter the following command:
```
qpc-tools cli install --version=0.9.0
```

## Options for All Commands

The following options are available for every Quipucords command.

``--help``

  Prints the help for the ``qpc-tools`` command.

## Authors

The qpc-tools was originally written by [Chris Hambridge](mailto:chambrid@redhat.com), [Kevan Holdaway](mailto:kholdawa@redhat.com), [Ashley Aiken](mailto:aaiken@redhat.com), [Cody Myers](mailto:cmyers@redhat.com), and [Dostonbek Toirov](mailto:dtoirov@redhat.com).

## Copyright

Copyright 2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.

Commit message:

Add password prompting  (#33)
* Changes to add password prompting and make the server password and dbms password required

docs/man.md, after:

# qpc-tools

## Name

qpc-tools - Configuration tools for the Quipucords server and command line interface client.


## Synopsis

`qpc-tools command subcommand [options]`

## Description

The `qpc-tools` package is used to configure the Quipucords server and command line interface (CLI) client.

# Usage

The following sections describe these commands, their subcommands, and their options in more detail. They also describe additional tasks that are not highlighted in the previous list of major workflow tasks.

## Server
This section describes various `qpc-tools` commands for installing and configuring the Quipucords server.

### Server Install Command
Use the `qpc-tools server install` command to install and configure the Quipucords server. When running the `qpc-tools server install` command, the user can optionally specify both the server admin password and the database password. If either password is not specified, they will be prompted to enter it. Additionally, it is recommended to run the command with options to change default usernames.

**qpc-tools server install** [**-h**]
                         [**--offline**]
                         [**--offline-files** *OFFLINE_FILES*]
                         [**--version** *SERVER_VERSION*]
                         [**--home-dir** *HOME_DIR*]
                         [**--port** *SERVER_PORT*]
                         [**--open-port** *OPEN_PORT*]
                         [**--db-user** *DB_USER*]
                         [**--db-password** *DB_PASSWORD*]
                         [**--username** *SERVER_USERNAME*]
                         [**--password** *SERVER_PASSWORD*]

`--offline`

  Controls whether the installation runs as an offline (disconnected) installation.

`--offline-files=OFFLINE_FILES`

  Sets the fully qualified path to the files needed to complete an offline installation. Required if `offline` specified.

`--version=VERSION`

  Enables the installation of a specific Quipucords server version. Contains the semantic versioning format (version.release.patch, such as 0.9.0) of the Quipucords server that you want to install. Required if `offline` is specified.

`--home-dir=HOME_DIR`

  Sets the fully qualified path to the installation directory for the Quipucords server. Defaults to `~/quipucords/`.

`--port=SERVER_PORT`

  Sets the port number for the Quipucords server. Defaults to `9443`.

`--open-port=OPEN_PORT`

  Determines whether to open the `port` in the firewall during the installation. This option enables communication between the Quipucords server and any remote clients over the port defined in `port`. Contains a true or false value. Defaults to `true`. Supply `false` to install without opening the server port in the firewall. The installation script must run with elevated privileges to open the server port.

`--db-user=DB_USER`

  Specifies the database user for PostgreSQL. Defaults to `postgres`.

`--db-password`

  Specifies the database password for PostgreSQL.

`--username=SERVER_USERNAME`

  Sets the Quipucords server user name. Defaults to `admin`.

`--password`

  Sets the Quipucords server password.


#### Installing the server offline

If you choose the offline option to run the install command, you must do the following steps.

1. Obtain the installation packages on a machine with internet connectivity.
    - [Download the following server image](https://github.com/quipucords/quipucords/releases/latest/download/quipucords_server_image.tar.gz)
    - Create the PostgreSQL image TAR file with Docker. Use the the following command, where the package name is ``postgres.9.6.10.tar``:

        ```
        docker pull postgres:9.6.10 && docker save -o postgres.9.6.10.tar postgres:9.6.10
        ```
1. Create a location for the packages on the machine where Quipucords will be installed and move the packages to that location.
1. Run qpc-tools with the required options to complete an offline installation.  For example:

    ```
    qpc-tools server install --password --db-password --offline --offline-files='/PATH' --version=0.9.1
    ```

#### Installing a specific version of the server

By default, the `qpc-tools server install` command installs the latest release unless an earlier version is specified in the command. For example, if the previous version of Quipucords that you want to install is 0.9.0, you would enter the following command:

```
qpc-tools server install --version=0.9.0
```

## Command Line Interface (CLI)
This section describes various `qpc-tools` commands for installing and configuring the Quipucrods CLI.

### CLI Install Command

The `qpc-tools cli install` command with no options performs a basic installation with the preset defaults.

Note that in the log information for the `qpc-tools cli install` command, references to `quipucords server` are relevant to the Quipucords server, and references to `QPC CLI` are relevant to the Quipucords command line interface client.

**qpc-tools cli install** [**-h**]
                         [**--offline**]
                         [**--offline-files** *OFFLINE_FILES*]
                         [**--version** *SERVER_VERSION*]
                         [**--home-dir** *HOME_DIR*]
                         [**--server-host** *SERVER_HOST*]
                         [**--server-port** *SERVER_PORT*]

`--offline`

  Controls whether the installation runs as an offline (disconnected) installation.

`--offline-files=OFFLINE_FILES`

  Sets the fully qualified path to the files needed to complete an offline installation. Required if `offline` specified.

`--version=VERSION`

  Enables the installation of a specific Quipucords CLI version. Contains the semantic versioning format (version.release.patch, such as 0.9.0) of the Quipucords CLI that you want to install.

`--home-dir=HOME_DIR`

  Sets the fully qualified path to the installation directory for the Quipucords CLI. Defaults to `~/quipucords/`.

`--server-host=SERVER_HOST`

  Sets the host for the Quipucords server. Defaults to `127.0.0.1`.

`--server-port=SERVER_PORT`

  Sets the port number for the Quipucords server. Defaults to `9443`.


#### Installing the CLI offline

If you choose the offline option to run the install command, you must do the following steps:

1. Obtain the installation packages on a machine with internet connectivity.  Select the appropriate RPM for your operating system.
    - [Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 and CentOS 6](https://github.com/quipucords/qpc/releases/latest/download/qpc.el6.noarch.rpm)
    - [Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7 and CentOS 7](https://github.com/quipucords/qpc/releases/latest/download/qpc.el7.noarch.rpm)
    - [Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8](https://github.com/quipucords/qpc/releases/latest/download/qpc.el8.noarch.rpm)
1. Create a location for the packages on the machine where Quipucords will be installed and move the packages to that location.
1. Run qpc-tools with the required options to complete an offline installation.  For example:
    ```
    qpc-tools cli install --offline --offline-files='/PATH'
    ```

#### Installing a specific version of the CLI
By default, the `qpc-tools cli install` command installs the latest release unless an earlier version is specified in the command. For example, if the previous version of Quipucords that you want to install is 0.9.0., you would enter the following command:
```
qpc-tools cli install --version=0.9.0
```

## Options for All Commands

The following options are available for every Quipucords command.

``--help``

  Prints the help for the ``qpc-tools`` command.

## Authors

The qpc-tools was originally written by [Chris Hambridge](mailto:chambrid@redhat.com), [Kevan Holdaway](mailto:kholdawa@redhat.com), [Ashley Aiken](mailto:aaiken@redhat.com), [Cody Myers](mailto:cmyers@redhat.com), and [Dostonbek Toirov](mailto:dtoirov@redhat.com).

## Copyright

Copyright 2019 Red Hat, Inc. Licensed under the GNU Public License version 3.
